## Protein Small Molecule Complex Dataset Curation
This directory curates the list of protein small molecule complexes that we train on, and is meant to be run in order (using the standard RFAA environment). If you are short on time and just want to run the entire pipeline in sequence, you can run the `run_all.py` script in this directory. Note that if you want to run steps 1 and 4 of this pipeline, you will need to use the slurm flag as part of the arguments to the apptainer call. For steps 1 you will need several bind mounts from digs. I've added a complete run command below:

```
apptainer run --bind /projects/ml/RF2_allatom/,/home/jue/dev/rfaa/,/home/aivan/work/results/2022Jul23/,/projects/ml/TrRosetta/PDB-2021AUG02/, --slurm /software/containers/versions/SE3nv/SE3nv-20240415.sif run_all.py
```

You will probably get the following warnings:
```
submitit WARNING (2024-04-08 16:01:29,777) - Call #1 - Bypassing sacct error [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'sacct', status may be inaccurate.
```

You can safely ignore these. I'm pretty sure they don't affect the pipeline. 

You can also run the individual pieces in sequence with their arguments via the apptainer call. Either way, the pipeline is the following scripts in sequence:

#### `1_parse_cifs_into_rows.py`
This file parses a list of cif files from the PDB into rows, such that each row represents a "query" ligand in a PDB entry and its associated parters, as well as some metadata about that entry. The output is a set of pickle files that contain the DataFrame rows for each cif file. There are a number of options at this stage that are described in the file, specifically `create_parser`. Note that this function will submit 1000 jobs to slurm, and each job has a time limit of up to 1 hour. All jobs should finish in that time, and it usually takes me about a day to run all the shards. Once all of the shards have completed, you can move on to step 2.

Arguments:
- `--include_nucleic_acids`: Whether or not to include nucleic acids in the partners list. For now we don't do this but probably should start in the future.
- `--close_dist_prot`: The distance at which a protein has to have at least `min_close_prot` atoms within such that it is included in the partners list.
- `--min_close_prot`: The minimum number of atoms within `close_dist_prot` for a protein to be included in the partners list.
- `--contact_dist_prot`: The distance that is considered a `contact` between a ligand and a protein.
- `--max_prot_partners`: The maximum number of protein partners to include in the output.
- `--contact_dist_lig`: The distance that is considered a `contact` between two ligands.
- `--close_dist_lig`: The distance at which a ligand has to have at ALL atoms within such that it is included in the partners list.
- `--max_lig_partners`: The maximum number of ligand partners to include in the output.
- `--base_dir`: Where to parse cif files from.
- `--out_dir`: Where to save the output csv files.
- `--max_unique_copies_per_cif`: The maximum number of unique copies of a ligand to consider in a given cif file. This is mostly for speed purposes, and defaults to 20. Usually after the first 20 copies of a ligand in a given PDB entry, the remaining copies don't contain new information.
- `--coordinating_distance`: The distance at which a ligand is considered to be `coordinated` by `min_coordinating` residue atoms. This will impact the `QLIG_IS_COORDINATED` column.
- `--min_coordinating`: The minimum number of atoms within `coordinating_distance` for a ligand to be considered `coordinated` by a residue atom.
- `--ignore_ligand_list`: Ligands to not consider during cif parsing. Defaults to "HOH,DOD,EDO,PEG,GOL", and is basically a super conservative list of things we definitely don't want to be training on.
- `--max_assembly_protein_chains`: If an assembly has more protein chains than this, it is skipped. Mostly for speed reasons. You can set this to be very high if you want to include all assemblies. This ignores some large ribosomal complexes among other things.


#### `2_merge_rows_into_master_set.py`
This file merges the pickle files created in step 1 into a single master set of rows, and combines it with the existing TRRosetta dataset that includes things like sequence cluster and resolution. This file also filters out rows that are not in the TRRosetta dataset, and adds metadata about which rows are in biolip, pdbbind etc. This step can be run locally on your desktop machine, and should take no more that a few minutes. Note that the argument `--out_dir` that you pass into this function has to match the argument `--out_dir` that you used in step 1. By default, this script will output a pickle file called `sm_compl.pkl`, but it will not touch the output shards generated by step 1, which contain redundant information. If you want to remove the old shards, you can pass the argument `--remove_shards_after_merging` to this script.

#### `3_filter_nonexisting_partner_chains.py`
This file loops through all rows and all partners in each row and makes sure that every protein chain partner is in the `chid2hash` dictionary that is used during training, and filters out any such partners that are not in this dictionary. These partners cannot be loaded because they do not have MSAs or templates and will cause the loading script to crash. This script can be run locally on your desktop machine, and should take no more than a few minutes. Note that the argument `--out_dir` that you pass into this function has to match the argument `--out_dir` that you used in step 1. This script will replace the `sm_compl.pkl` file that was generated in step 2 with a filtered version of the same file.

#### `4_load_all_examples.py`
This script loads all examples in the `sm_compl.pkl` file. If any of the examples throw an error during loading or take longer than a predefined time limit to load (defaulting to 60 seconds), those items are noted. This script will submit 1024 shards to the slurm cluster, and each shard has a time limit of 3 hours. Usually this takes about a day or two to complete. Each shard will output a pickle file containing a DataFrame with two columns: `index` and `exception`. The former will have the row index of the loaded item from the original `sm_compl.pkl` data frame, and the latter will have the exception that was thrown during loading, if any, and `None` otherwise. Once all shards have completed, you can move on to step 5.

#### `5_add_bad_examples_as_column.py`
This script takes the output of step 4 and adds a column to the `sm_compl.pkl` file that contains the exceptions that were thrown during loading. This script can be run locally on your desktop machine, and should take no more than a few minutes. Note that the argument `--out_dir` that you pass into this function has to match the argument `--out_dir` that you used in step 1. This script will replace the `sm_compl.pkl` file that was generated in step 3 with a version that contains the new column, `LOADED_WITHOUT_ERROR`, which will be `True` if the example loaded without error, and `False` otherwise.


### Notes
There are still a couple bugs that remain in the dataset. In particular:
- Asmb xforms are not being processed correctly for ligands. If there is a ligand that has multiple transforms, e.g. due to symmetry, the code will only take the first such transform.
- Short peptides that are not in chid2hash are filtered out from the partners list and also any rows that have such peptides as the primary chain are filtered out from the dataframe.
- There are still hardcoded paths in the data curation code that reference Ivan's and Jue's home directories. This is bad because these will probably be deleted within the near future.
